W-19261099-Add-FIPS-140-2-in-Studio-CP (#616)
mulesoft/docs-studio: modules/ROOT/pages/change-jdk-config-in-projects.adoc

== Verify Java 17 Module Compatibility

In Studio 7.19.0 and later, you can check if the modules in your Mule project are Java 17 compatible:

. Right-click the name of your project.
. Select *Mule* > *Java 17 Module Compatibility*.
+
Studio analyzes the modules in your Mule project and shows the modules that aren't Java 17 compatible in the *Problems* tab.  
. xref:update-modules.adoc[Update the modules] that aren’t Java 17 compatible.

image::java-17-tooling.png["The problems tab is open, with one warning and three Java module compatibility notifications"]

== Configure FIPS 140-2 in Studio

Studio supports FIPS 140-2 security model for Java 8, 11, and 17.

=== Configure FIPS 140-2 in Java 8

. Download the provider files from the https://www.bouncycastle.org/download/bouncy-castle-java-fips/[BouncyCastle] website:
+
--
* Provider: bc-fips-1.0.2.4
* TLS: bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar
* PKIX: bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar
--
+
. Install the required JAR files into your Studio embedded JDK 8. This example shows the command for a default macOS installation. The path to the `.../jre/lib/ext/` directory can be different depending on your operating system and Studio version.
+
[source,bash]
----

> cp bc-fips-1.0.2.4.jar bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar /Applications/AnypointStudio.app/Contents/Eclipse/plugins/org.mule.tooling.jdk.v8.macosx.x86_64_1.3.4/Contents/Home/jre/lib/ext/

Reviewer: Should we add a note with the default path in Windows? 
`C:\AnypointStudio\plugins\org.mule.tooling.jdk.v8.win32.x86_1.3.4\jre\lib\ext`

Author: I'll add it. Thanks!

* OS: Mac OS X (10.11, x86_64)
* Host: your-hostname.local (10.250.0.81)
* Security model: fips140-2 //<!--1-->
* Mule services:
  - api-gateway-contract-service-1.0.0-mule-service.jar
  - mule-service-http-ee-1.1.1-mule-service.jar
  - mule-service-oauth-1.1.1-mule-service.jar
  - mule-service-scheduler-1.1.4-mule-service.jar
  - mule-service-soap-1.1.2-mule-service.jar
  - mule-service-weave-ee-2.1.2-mule-service.jar
* Mule system properties:
  - mule.security.model = fips140-2
  - mule.base = /Users/your-user/AnypointStudio/studio-workspace/.mule
  - mule.home = /Users/your-user/AnypointStudio/studio-workspace/.mule
----
[calloutlist]
.. FIPS 140-2 security model is enabled.

=== Configure FIPS 140-2 in Java 11 and Later

. Download the provider files from the https://www.bouncycastle.org/download/bouncy-castle-java-fips/[BouncyCastle] website:
+
--
* Provider: bc-fips-1.0.2.4
* TLS: bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar
* PKIX: bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar
--
+
. Copy the downloaded files to the embedded Mule runtime `.../lib/boot` directory. The path to this directory can vary depending on your Studio and Mule runtime versions.
+
[source,bash]
----

> cp bc-fips-1.0.2.4.jar bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar /Applications/AnypointStudio.app/Contents/Eclipse/plugins/org.mule.tooling.server.4.4.0.ee_7.3.5.202107221543/mule/lib/boot

Reviewer: I would use a 4.9 path instead of 4.4.0 
`/Applications/AnypointStudio.app/Contents/Eclipse/plugins/org.mule.tooling.server.4.9.ee_7.21.0.202507071837/lib/boot`
Also, should we add the default path for Windows in a note?
`C:\AnypointStudio\plugins\org.mule.tooling.server.4.9.ee_7.21.0.202507071837\lib\boot`

Author: I'll add it. Thanks!

----

> . In Studio, go to your project, right click on its folder, and select *Run configuration*.

Reviewer: Before this step, add the following for **Java 17**:

For Java 17 only

- Delete the wrapper.conf file found at `AnypointStudio\plugins\org.mule.tooling.server.4.9.ee_7.21.0.202507071837\mule\conf`
- Edit AnypointStudio\plugins\org.mule.tooling.server.4.9.ee_7.21.0.202507071837\mule\conf\wrapper.conf.template and uncomment (delete the starting `#`) at the following line: 
`wrapper.java.additional.21=--add-opens=java.base/sun.security.provider=org.bouncycastle.fips.core`

Author: OK! Thanks!

. Go to the *Arguments* tab. In *VM arguments*, add:
+
[source,text]
----

> -Dmule.security.model=fips140-2 --add-opens=java.base/sun.security.provider=org.bouncycastle.fips.core -Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true

Reviewer: In line with the previous comment, delete the `--add-opens=java.base/sun.security.provider=org.bouncycastle.fips.core` from here

Author: OK! Thanks!

+
The Studio services restart and the tooling instance restarts using Java 17.

Use the xref:change-jdk-config-in-projects.adoc#verify-java-17-module-compatibility[Java 17 module compatibility tool] to verify the modules in your Mule project are Java 17 compatible.

== Verify Java 17 Module Compatibility

In Studio 7.19.0 and later, you can check if the modules in your Mule project are Java 17 compatible:

. Right-click the name of your project.
. Select *Mule* > *Java 17 Module Compatibility*.
+
Studio analyzes the modules in your Mule project and shows the modules that aren't Java 17 compatible in the *Problems* tab.  
. xref:update-modules.adoc[Update the modules] that aren’t Java 17 compatible.

image::java-17-tooling.png["The problems tab is open, with one warning and three Java module compatibility notifications"]

== Configure FIPS 140-2 in Studio

> Studio supports FIPS 140-2 security mode for Java 8, 11, and 17.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Studio supports FIPS 140-2 security model for Java 8, 11, and 17.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

=== Configure FIPS 140-2 in Java 8

. Download the provider files from the https://www.bouncycastle.org/download/bouncy-castle-java-fips/[BouncyCastle] website:
+
--
* Provider: bc-fips-1.0.2.4
* TLS: bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar
* PKIX: bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar
--
+
. Install the required JAR files into your Studio embedded JDK 8. This example shows the command for a default macOS installation. The path to the `.../jre/lib/ext/` directory can be different depending on your operating system and Studio version.
+
[source,bash]
----
cp bc-fips-1.0.2.4.jar bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar /Applications/AnypointStudio.app/Contents/Eclipse/plugins/org.mule.tooling.jdk.v8.macosx.x86_64_1.3.4/Contents/Home/jre/lib/ext/
----
+

> . Register the security providers in the `java.security` properties file, located in your JDK 8 `.../lib/security/` folder. Add the Bouncy Castle providers to the beginning of the provider list and renumber the subsequent entries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Register the security providers in the `java.security` properties file, located in your JDK 8 `.../lib/security/` folder. The only available providers must be the Bouncy Castle providers.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

+
[source,java]
----
#
# List of providers and their preference orders:
#
security.provider.1=org.bouncycastle.jcajce.provider.BouncyCastleFipsProvider
security.provider.2=org.bouncycastle.jsse.provider.BouncyCastleJsseProvider fips:BCFIPS
security.provider.3=sun.security.provider.Sun

> security.provider.4=sun.security.rsa.SunRsaSign

Reviewer 2: Delete security.provider.3 and security.provider.4

Author: OK! Thanks!

# ...
----
+
. Save your changes.
. In Studio, go to your project, right click on its folder, and select *Run configuration*.
. Go to the *Arguments* tab. In *VM arguments*, add:
+
[source,text]
----
-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2 
-Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true
----
+

> . Run your application. The startup readout shows FIPS security mode enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Run your application. The startup readout shows FIPS security model enabled.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

+
[source,text]
----
* Mule Runtime and Integration Platform
* Version: 4.1.1 Build: adffffac
* MuleSoft, Inc.
* For more information go to
* https://www.mulesoft.com/platform/soa/mule-esb-enterprise
*
* Server started: 6/4/18 4:06 PM
* JDK: 1.8.0_172 (mixed mode)
* JDK properties:
  - java.vendor = Oracle Corporation
  - java.vm.name = Java HotSpot(TM) 64-Bit Server VM
  - java.home = /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/jdk1.8.0_172.jdk/Contents/Home/jre
* OS: Mac OS X (10.11, x86_64)
* Host: your-hostname.local (10.250.0.81)
* Security model: fips140-2 //<!--1-->
* Mule services:
  - api-gateway-contract-service-1.0.0-mule-service.jar
  - mule-service-http-ee-1.1.1-mule-service.jar
  - mule-service-oauth-1.1.1-mule-service.jar
  - mule-service-scheduler-1.1.4-mule-service.jar
  - mule-service-soap-1.1.2-mule-service.jar
  - mule-service-weave-ee-2.1.2-mule-service.jar
* Mule system properties:
  - mule.security.model = fips140-2
  - mule.base = /Users/your-user/AnypointStudio/studio-workspace/.mule
  - mule.home = /Users/your-user/AnypointStudio/studio-workspace/.mule
----
[calloutlist]

> .. FIPS 140-2 security mode is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. FIPS 140-2 security model is enabled.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

=== Configure FIPS 140-2 in Java 11 and Later

. Download the provider files from the https://www.bouncycastle.org/download/bouncy-castle-java-fips/[BouncyCastle] website:
+
--
* Provider: bc-fips-1.0.2.4
* TLS: bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar
* PKIX: bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar
--
+
. Copy the downloaded files to the embedded Mule runtime `.../lib/boot` directory. The path to this directory can vary depending on your Studio and Mule runtime versions.
+
[source,bash]
----
cp bc-fips-1.0.2.4.jar bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar /Applications/AnypointStudio.app/Contents/Eclipse/plugins/org.mule.tooling.server.4.4.0.ee_7.3.5.202107221543/mule/lib/boot
----
. In Studio, go to your project, right click on its folder, and select *Run configuration*.
. Go to the *Arguments* tab. In *VM arguments*, add:
+
[source,text]
----
-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2 --add-opens=java.base/sun.security.provider=org.bouncycastle.fips.core -Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true
----

> . Run your application. The startup readout shows FIPS security mode enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Run your application. The startup readout shows FIPS security model enabled.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

+
[source,text]
----
* Mule Runtime and Integration Platform
* Version: 4.4.0 Build: adffffac
* MuleSoft, Inc.
* For more information go to
* https://www.mulesoft.com/platform/soa/mule-esb-enterprise
*
* Server started: 8/10/21 5:12 PM
* JDK: 11.0.11 (mixed mode)
* JDK properties:
  - java.vendor = AdoptOpenJDK
  - java.vm.name = OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM
  - java.home = /Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/adoptopenjdk-11.jdk/Contents/Home
* OS: Mac OS X (11.5, x86_64)
* Host: your-hostname.local (192.168.1.10)
* Security model: fips140-2 // <1>
* Mule services:
  - ...
* Mule system properties:
  - mule.security.model = fips140-2
  - mule.base = /Users/your-user/AnypointStudio/studio-workspace/.mule
  - mule.home = /Users/your-user/AnypointStudio/studio-workspace/.mule
----
[calloutlist]

> .. FIPS 140-2 security mode is enabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. FIPS 140-2 security model is enabled.
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

+
[source,bash]
----
cp bc-fips-1.0.2.4.jar bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar /Applications/AnypointStudio.app/Contents/Eclipse/plugins/org.mule.tooling.jdk.v8.macosx.x86_64_1.3.4/Contents/Home/jre/lib/ext/
----
+
The default path on Windows is `C:\AnypointStudio\plugins\org.mule.tooling.jdk.v8.win32.x86_1.3.4\jre\lib\ext``.
+
. Register the security providers in the `java.security` properties file, located in your JDK 8 `.../lib/security/` folder. Bouncy Castle must be the only providers.
+
[source,java]
----
#
# List of providers and their preference orders:
#
security.provider.1=org.bouncycastle.jcajce.provider.BouncyCastleFipsProvider
security.provider.2=org.bouncycastle.jsse.provider.BouncyCastleJsseProvider fips:BCFIPS
# ...
----
+
. Save your changes.
. In Studio, go to your project, right click on its folder, and select *Run configuration*.
. Go to the *Arguments* tab. In *VM arguments*, add:
+
[source,text]
----
-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2 
-Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true
----
+
. Run your application. The startup readout shows FIPS security model enabled.
+
[source,text]
----
* Mule Runtime and Integration Platform

> * Version: 4.1.1 Build: adffffac

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Version: 4.6.21 Build: adffffac
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

* Mule system properties:
  - mule.security.model = fips140-2
  - mule.base = /Users/your-user/AnypointStudio/studio-workspace/.mule
  - mule.home = /Users/your-user/AnypointStudio/studio-workspace/.mule
----
[calloutlist]
.. FIPS 140-2 security model is enabled.

=== Configure FIPS 140-2 in Java 11 and Later

. Download the provider files from the https://www.bouncycastle.org/download/bouncy-castle-java-fips/[BouncyCastle] website:
+
--
* Provider: bc-fips-1.0.2.4
* TLS: bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar
* PKIX: bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar
--
+
. Copy the downloaded files to the embedded Mule runtime `.../lib/boot` directory. The path to this directory can vary depending on your Studio and Mule runtime versions.
+
[source,bash]
----
cp bc-fips-1.0.2.4.jar bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar /Applications/AnypointStudio.app/Contents/Eclipse/plugins/org.mule.tooling.server.4.9.ee_7.21.0.202507071837/lib/boot
----
+
The default path on Windows is `C:\AnypointStudio\plugins\org.mule.tooling.server.4.9.ee_7.21.0.202507071837\lib\boot`.
+
. Delete the *wrapper.conf* file at `AnypointStudio\plugins\org.mule.tooling.server.4.9.ee_7.21.0.202507071837\mule\conf`.

> . Edit `AnypointStudio\plugins\org.mule.tooling.server.4.9.ee_7.21.0.202507071837\mule\conf\wrapper.conf.template` and uncomment this line by deleting the starting *#* character:

Reviewer: Add: 

Edit file `/Applications/AnypointStudio.app/Contents/Eclipse/plugins/org.mule.tooling.jdk.macosx.aarch64_1.4.1/Contents/Home/conf/security/java.security` to list only the BouncyCastle security providers: 
```
security.provider.1=org.bouncycastle.jcajce.provider.BouncyCastleFipsProvider
security.provider.2=org.bouncycastle.jsse.provider.BouncyCastleJsseProvider fips:BCFIPS
```

Author: OK! Gracias!

+
[source,text]
----
wrapper.java.additional.21=--add-opens=java.base/sun.security.provider=org.bouncycastle.fips.core
----
+
. In Studio, go to your project, right click on its folder, and select *Run configuration*.
. Go to the *Arguments* tab. In *VM arguments*, add:
+
[source,text]
----
-Dmule.security.model=fips140-2
-Dorg.bouncycastle.fips.approved_only=true
----
. Run your application. The startup readout shows FIPS security model enabled.
+
[source,text]
----
* Mule Runtime and Integration Platform

> * Version: 4.4.0 Build: adffffac

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Version: 4.9.8 Build: adffffac
```

Author: OK! Thanks!

+
The Studio services restart and the tooling instance restarts using Java 17.

Use the xref:change-jdk-config-in-projects.adoc#verify-java-17-module-compatibility[Java 17 module compatibility tool] to verify the modules in your Mule project are Java 17 compatible.

== Verify Java 17 Module Compatibility

In Studio 7.19.0 and later, you can check if the modules in your Mule project are Java 17 compatible:

. Right-click the name of your project.
. Select *Mule* > *Java 17 Module Compatibility*.
+
Studio analyzes the modules in your Mule project and shows the modules that aren't Java 17 compatible in the *Problems* tab.  
. xref:update-modules.adoc[Update the modules] that aren’t Java 17 compatible.

image::java-17-tooling.png["The problems tab is open, with one warning and three Java module compatibility notifications"]

== Configure FIPS 140-2 in Studio

Studio supports FIPS 140-2 security model for Java 8, 11, and 17.

=== Configure FIPS 140-2 in Java 8

> . Download the provider files from the https://www.bouncycastle.org/download/bouncy-castle-java-fips/[BouncyCastle] website:

Reviewer 3: Is the colon at the end of the sentence intentional? I thought it should be a period, but ignore my comment if it doesn't apply.

Author: Yoo're right! Thanks!

+
--
* Provider: bc-fips-1.0.2.4
* TLS: bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar
* PKIX: bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar
--
. Install the required JAR files into your Studio embedded JDK 8. This example shows the command for a default macOS installation. The path to the `.../jre/lib/ext/` directory can be different depending on your operating system and Studio version.
+
[source,bash]
----
cp bc-fips-1.0.2.4.jar bctls-fips-1.0.19.jar bcpkix-fips-1.0.7.jar /Applications/AnypointStudio.app/Contents/Eclipse/plugins/org.mule.tooling.jdk.v8.macosx.x86_64_1.3.4/Contents/Home/jre/lib/ext/
----
+
The default path on Windows is `C:\AnypointStudio\plugins\org.mule.tooling.jdk.v8.win32.x86_1.3.4\jre\lib\ext`.

> . Register the security providers in the `java.security` properties file, located in your JDK 8 `.../lib/security/` folder. Bouncy Castle must be the only providers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Register the security providers in the `java.security` properties file, located in your JDK 8 `.../lib/security/` folder. Bouncy Castle must be the only provider.
```

Reviewer 3: Maybe "Bouncy Castle is the only supported provider." ?

Author: OK! Thanks!
